# Git 101

This is a really quick guide for people just starting working with git or who never used it to collaborate with other people.

This guide assumes that the Git program is installed and all commands are performed from the command line. It's really better to learn this way.

## Important note

The current base branch is `develop`, as we are trying to prepare MVP and the release cycle, procedures and deployment environemnt  are not fully determined yet.

## Basic workflow

When working with multiple contributors to the codebase it's important to have a consistent and unified workflow, which will help everybody to know what is currently going on, what was changed recently and generally, how the project was evolving. The current workflow for this project consists of a few steps:

1. Update your code to the latest version of a base branch
2. Create a new branch for the issue you want to work on
3. Make changes to the code
4. Commit changes to your branch
5. Publish your branch
6. Create Pull request for your branch


## Getting the latest version of the code

This is a really important step, because the code is evolving quite fast.

```
$ git checkout develop
$ git pull origin develop
```

or more 'consciense' way:

```
$ git checkout develop
$ git fetch
$ git git rebase origin/develop
```

This gives you the lastest version of the base branch, on which all new code should be added.

If you have any changes which have not been submitted to the base branch yet, you should update them now:
```
$ git checkout your-local-branch
$ git rebase develop
```

When you have any conflicts during rebase, it will be paused, so that you can resolve this conflicts manually. When the conflits are resolved, add all relevant files:
```
$ git add PATHS/TO/CHANGED/FILES
```

and then continue with the rebase:
```
$ git rebase --continue
```

## Starting work on new issue

Create a branch with a name related to the issue you are working on. It's a good practise to include issue number in this name. From the tip of a base branch:

```
$ git checkout -b your-awesome-feature-123
```

where #123 is an issue id.


## Modifying the code

When you apply some modifications to the code, you can store them in a commit:
```
$ git add path/to/changed/file/you/want/to/publish
$ git commit
```

Right now the default Git editor is opened, and you need to provide a commit message. Take your time and think of some message which will be useful to other developers.
Remember about imperative mode.

See those guidelines and best practices for details: [How to create a good commit message.](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)

After you are finished with creating a message, save and close your editor, and the commit will be created.

You can create multiple commits on your branch when you feel it's necessary to divide your work into smaller chunks, or you just like working in small steps.

Some useful commands:
- `$ git add -u` - add all modified and tracked files
- `$ git add .` - add all files in the current directory (also unversioned ones that are not included in the .gitignore file)
- `$ git commit -v` - commit with the preview of made modifications. This preview will NOT be included in the commit message, it's just a way to help developer rememeber what he's actually changed
- `$ git commit -m 'Change code so that it works better'` - create commit with commit message in one take

## Publish your changes

In order to publish your changes you need to push your branch to the remote repository:
```
$ git checkout your-feature-branch-123
$ git push origin your-feature-branch-123
```

It is forbidden to publish your changes directly to a base branch, the only way is to publish your changes through a separate branch, and then have it merged after the whole review process.

## Creating Pull request

Pull requests are the important way of communication, so they should be used well.

- Create pull request for every feature / bug fix you have implemented.
- Create pull request based on your branch, which was compared to the base branch.
- It is your responsibility to keep your pull request up-to-date, so when there are any new changes on the base branch before your pull request is closed, you should update your branch to include those changes
- Pull request is an opportunity for the team to do a code review and discuss this solution and also for the CI to perform automated tests, which will verify the commits

### How to create

Just create it from the GitHub website, comparing your branch with `develop`. Or use some IDE plugin integrating well with GitHub, if you want to.

### Updating code in your pull request

If you need to make some changes (tests are failing, or there were changes requested by the reviewer, etc.) just put additional commits to your branch. They will be automatically added to this currently opened pull request.

### Updating pull request to the newest changes on the base branch

Every time your PR is behind current tip of the base branch, it's your responsibility to update it.

**NEVER do it through GitHub website, as it creates merge commits and messes up the history!**

To update pull request follow the procedure from the section above on getting the latest version of the code.
After you are done rebasing you need to push your updated branch. But because the whole branch has changed, you need to rewrite it:
```
$ git push origin your-feature-branch-123 --force
```

### Useful resources

The most complete resource is [Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) - book and documentation

There are many other useful sites and blogs, for example [this blog post](https://zwischenzugs.com/2018/03/14/five-key-git-concepts-explained-the-hard-way/) is also worth reading.
